# Effective and Ineffective Altruism 

In some religions begging is illegal. But what constitutes begging?
In Geneva and in most touristic places like Rome and Paris, there is a proliferation of beggars. 
I've heard about the stigma surrounding begging in Geneva. 
Around that time, I had just finished reading the book: "Utopia for realists".
The book talks about the idea of Universal Basic Income. When one reads, not all of the details are remembered but one idea that popped out was the idea that having cash/shelter/medical care frees mental bandwidth that allows the people to think more clearly.
Of course, there are some downsides to Universal Basic Income, - i.e. the idea "Welfare trap" which indicates that people would have no hope for self-sufficiency. But what is self-sufficiency anyway? 

I used to carry around a lot of spare cash/coins on my pocket and I was rather indiscriminate in giving away coins or bringing in people to groceries to buy them food. I only hope dthat I could help someone stave off hunger just for that day. 
But then as I collected more information, i.e. the number of beggars that I attracted grew disproportionately larger than my personal resources, that I had to say no to some of them. In a simple binary classification, I categorize two kinds of beggars: 1.) A beggar that does not coerce 2.) A beggar that is coercive.
It was on one clear day by the lake that I had two coins on my hands. There were two swiss francs and a five swiss francs. That time, I gave her 2 swiss francs. Upon her seeing the other coin which was larger, she yanked my hand and took the 5 swiss franc from me without my consent in an act of desperation! 
At least that's how I perceived it at that time. So I let it go. 

But there were some "beggars" for a lack of a better term whom you could smell, i.e. have an intuition were not out there to harm you and was not simply selling a sob story. I took this old lady to the store and she was grateful as she could be. I gave her a lot that day and I felt happy and felt connected to her. I never saw her again. 
Maybe she "fooled" me with her demeanor, maybe not. And maybe from the other side of the coin you couldn't tell whether or not I was giving something to her because I wanted something in exchange. 

At this point, I couldn't tell what the boundary is between effective and ineffective altruism is. Also, at some small scale there is no difference between me and any of the simple "prejudice" that I have against them. Perhaps, one's judgement could just be updated with newer information.


